# Dominic

> Date: 2018-05-22
>
> Duration: ~1 hr
>
> Interview notes with Dominic.

This was my first interview, and was great to start with someone so formative in ssb so that I could get a bit of a history lesson, and learn about what kinds of process people had tried & deployed for ssb projects in the past.

Because of Dominic's special relationship to the project (having started it), I wanted to let the conversation go where it would naturally, as I think this was a more valauable use of our time together than me sticking super tight to the questions I had previously designed for these process interviews.

## General "Process" Feelings

*   How do you feel about process?
    *   Traditionally, when someone turned up in the community and said "Hey i want to help", Dominic would say→ Figure out what you personally feel most needs to happen, and do that thing
        *   I want to work with people who are self initiating and just start doing their thing
        *   There's a lot of ppl who turned up and just did exactly that
        *   The biggest contributors have all responded like that
        *   Sometimes:
            *   Someone turns up and wants to help, but then they don't really end up doing anything
    *   Was just down in Wellington where Mikey, Dan Hasaan, Mix, Matt, Zach, etc
        *   These folks have a lot of experience with Enspiral, and have lots of ideas about process work, etc
    *   Historically in the past:
        *   Was just Dominic & Paul (paul went beaker browser)
        *   Mix started to get involved, took Dom & Paul through a "Theory of Change" workshop, & work backwards, etc
            *   Goal: Star Trek Socialism / The Galactic Federation
    *   Process over the past years
        *   Were doing an agile thing for a while, over mumble calls (first year or two)
            *   There's probably a trello from around those times
        *   Dom wanted to experiment with something more freeform, didn't do a call for a while, and then eventually just stopped 
        *   Did weekly calls for a bit
        *   Now doing calls on an as need basis (project specific)
*   Andre started the dev-diary practice
    *   Just writing what he did today, it's a really good method to write it up & describe it
    *   How others understand it & respond
*   Dom has been doing remote & open source work for ~5 years, so very comfortable describing thoughts with text
    *   Preferring this to synchronous calls & such

## The Grant Process

*   Definitely some big wins w/ the grant process
*   **The wins: **some things that couldn't have been planned, but bc the person just signs up & does it… it produces more surprising results
*   **The losses:** it's not so good for tasks that are not fun & exciting
*   Discussion about how do we do maintenance ?
    *   All the small fixes, integrating new features
    *   rolling out a new version of the replication protocol is a lot of work
        *   Designing it is super fun
        *   Actually rolling it out is super difficult
*   Dom would occasionally nudge someone to apply for a grant
    *   Eg encouraging Anders to do a benchmarking grant
        *   Measure how fast something is, see if you can improve it
        *   Benchmarks are tasks that are "incremental", so each thing you do is useful, no need to roll out a whole feature
        *   Now Anders has acquired a broad understanding of how the whole system works
*   Dom wanting to do more processes around incremental tasks
*   Other difficult thing about the grant process: It's actually quite stressful
    *   If we want to create a decentralized protocol, we need to be decentralized in how we organize it as well

## Towards the future (collaborative issue tracking)

*   Lukas & Dom talking about common pool resources (forest or a lake)
    *   Hard to exclude people from it, but if you take too much of it you ruin it
    *   Studied by Elinor Ostrom
    *   Thinking of the community, the labor of the community as hte common pool resource (as oppose to the code)
    *   Loomio is software that is specifically group oriented
*   What if you had an issue tracker that was focused on group usage
    *   Mikey & Dom are working on a prototype for it
        *   Most important category is "actionable issues" not "open issues"


One thing that we unfortunately didn't have a lot of time to discuss was how work & progress on large projects becomes visible within the broader ssb community. My gut understanding of this is that it is less on the radar of core developers, as this isn't a problem they face directly.

I'm curious to understand how much of a (desired knowledge <-> actual knowledge) gap there is for non-devs in the scuttleverse.
